MACHINE LEARNING

WORKSHEET – 1

In Q1 to Q7, only one option is correct, Choose the correct option:

1. The value of correlation coefficient will always be:
A) between 0 and 1 B) greater than -1
C) between -1 and 1 D) between 0 and -1
ANS:C

2. Which of the following cannot be used for dimensionality reduction?
A) Lasso Regularisation B) PCA
C) Recursive feature elimination D) Ridge Regularisation
ANS:C

3. Which of the following is not a kernel in Support Vector Machines?
A) linear B) Radial Basis Function
C) hyperplane D) polynomial
ANS:A 

4. Amongst the following, which one is least suitable for a dataset having non-linear decision boundaries?
A) Logistic Regression B) Naïve Bayes Classifier
C) Decision Tree Classifier D) Support Vector Classifier
ANS:D

5. In a Linear Regression problem, ‘X’ is independent variable and ‘Y’ is dependent variable, where ‘X’ represents
weight in pounds. If you convert the unit of ‘X’ to kilograms, then new coefficient of ‘X’ will be?
(1 kilogram = 2.205 pounds)
A) 2.205 × old coefficient of ‘X’ B) same as old coefficient of ‘X’
C) old coefficient of ‘X’ ÷ 2.205 D) Cannot be determined
ANS:B

6. As we increase the number of estimators in ADABOOST Classifier, what happens to the accuracy of the model?
A) remains same B) increases
C) decreases D) none of the above
ANS:D

7. Which of the following is not an advantage of using random forest instead of decision trees?
A) Random Forests reduce overfitting
B) Random Forests explains more variance in data then decision trees
C) Random Forests are easy to interpret
D) Random Forests provide a reliable feature importance estimate
ANS:C

In Q8 to Q10, more than one options are correct, Choose all the correct options:

8. Which of the following are correct about Principal Components?
A) Principal Components are calculated using supervised learning techniques
B) Principal Components are calculated using unsupervised learning techniques
C) Principal Components are linear combinations of Linear Variables.
D) All of the above
ANS:D

9. Which of the following are applications of clustering?
A) Identifying developed, developing and under-developed countries on the basis of factors like GDP, poverty
index, employment rate, population and living index
B) Identifying loan defaulters in a bank on the basis of previous years’ data of loan accounts.
C) Identifying spam or ham emails
D) Identifying different segments of disease based on BMI, blood pressure, cholesterol, blood sugar levels.
ANS:All

10. Which of the following is(are) hyper parameters of a decision tree?
A) max_depth B) max_features
C) n_estimators D) min_samples_leaf
ANS:A,B,D

Q10 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly.

11. What are outliers? Explain the Inter Quartile Range(IQR) method for outlier detection.

ANS:Outliers- A statistical outlier is any datapoint in a dataset that is beyond a pre-defined distribution range, usually representing a measurement error or abnormal data that should not be included.
Inter Quartile Range (IQR) method for outlier detection-
Box Plot use the IQR method to display data and outliers(shape of the data)but in order to be get a list of identified outliers. we will need to use the mathematical fomula and retrive the outlier data.
The Inter Quartile Range(IQR), also called the midspread or middle 50%, or technically H-spread is a measure of statistical dispersion being equal to the difference between 75th and 25th percentiles, or between upper and lower quartile, IQR= Q3-Q1.
According to the basic definition of IQR outliers, values less than Q1-1.5IQR and values greater than Q3+1.5IQR are treated as an outlier.

  
12. What is the primary difference between bagging and boosting algorithms?

ANS: If the classifier is unstable(high variance), then apply bagging. (Random Forest)
If the classifier is stable and simple(high bias) then apply boosting.(AdaBoost, Gradient Boosting)

13. What is adjusted R2 in logistic regression. How is it calculated?

ANS:Adjusted R2- Adjusted R2 is a modified form of R2 whose value increases if new preditors tend to improve model's performance and decreases if new predictors does not improve performance as expected.
calculation of Adjusted R2-

R2adj=1-[(1-R2)(n-1)/n-k-1]

where, R2=Rsquare
	n=sample size
	k=no of regressors

14. What is the difference between standardisation and normalisation?
ANS-
Standardisation-Standardization is a scaling technique where the values are centered around the mean with a unit standard deviation. This means that the mean of the attribute becomes zero and the resultant distribution has a unit standard deviation.
Normalisation-Normalization is a scaling technique in which values are shifted and rescaled so that they end up ranging between 0 and 1. It is also known as Min-Max scaling.
15. What is cross-validation? Describe one advantage and one disadvantage of using cross-validation.

ANS- Cross-Validation:Cross-Validation is a technique in which we train our model using the subset of the dataset and then evaluate using the complementary subset of the dataset.
In this method, we split the data set into k number of subsets(known as folds) then we perform training on all the subset for evaluation of the trained model. In this method, we iterate k times with a different subset reserved for testing purpose each time.
Advantage-
More "efficient" use of data as every observation is used for both training and testing. Chances of overfitting are less if the dataset is large.
Disadvantage-
Cross-validation drastically increases the training time. Earlier we had to train our model only on one training set, but with cross-validation we have to train our model on multiple training set.