WORKSHEET-1

SQL

Q1 and Q2 have one or more correct answer. Choose all the correct option to answer your question.
1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?
 A) Create B) Update
 C) Delete D) ALTER
ANS: A, D

2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?
 A) Update B) Delete
 C) Select D) Drop
ANS: A, B, C

Q3 to Q10 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.

3. Full form of SQL is:
 A) Strut querying language B) Structured Query Language
 C) Simple Query Language D) None of them
ANS: B) Structured Query Language

4. Full form of DDL is:
 A) Descriptive Designed Language B) Data Definition Language
 C) Data Descriptive Language D) None of the above.
ANS: B) Data Definition Language

5. DML is:
 A) Data Manipulation Language B) Data Management Language
 C) Data Modeling Language D) None of these
ANS: Data Manipulating Language

6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type?
 A) Table A (B int, C float) B) Create A (b int, C float)
 C) Create Table A (B int,C float) D) All of them
ANS: C

7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?
 A) Table A ( D float) B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float
 C) Table A( B int, C float, D float) D) None of them
ANS: B

8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
 A) Table A Drop D B) Alter Table A Drop Column D
 C) Delete D from A D) None of them
ANS: B

9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of
table A created in above questions?
 A) Table A (D float int) B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int
 C) Alter Table A D float int D) Alter table A Column D float to int
ANS: B

10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following
statements we can do it?
 A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B B) Alter table (B primary key)
 C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B D) None of 
ANS: C

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly.

11. What is data-warehouse?
ANS: Data-Warehouse- 
A Data Warehousing (DW) is process for collecting and managing data from varied sources to provide meaningful business insights.
A Data warehouse is typically used to connect and analyze business data from heterogeneous sources.
It is a blend of technologies and components which aids the strategic use of data. It is electronic storage of a large amount of information by a business which is designed for query and analysis instead of transaction processing.
It is a process of transforming data into information and making it available to users in a timely manner to make a difference.

12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?
ANS:OLTP-
Online transaction processing shortly known as OLTP supports transaction-oriented applications in a 3-tier architecture. OLTP administers day to day transaction of an organization.
The primary objective is data processing and not data analysis.
OLAP-
Online Analytical Processing, a category of software tools which provide analysis of data for business decisions. OLAP systems allow users to analyze database information from multiple database systems at one time.
The primary objective is data analysis and not data processing.

13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?
ANS:Data warehouse can be controlled when the user has a shared way of explaining the trends that are introduced as specific subject. Below are major characteristics of data warehouse:
1.Subject-oriented –
A data warehouse is always a subject oriented as it delivers information about a theme instead of organization’s current operations. It can be achieved on specific theme. That means the data warehousing process is proposed to handle with a specific theme which is more defined. These themes can be sales, distributions, marketing etc.
2.Integrated –
It is somewhere same as subject orientation which is made in a reliable format. Integration means founding a shared entity to scale the all similar data from the different databases. The data also required to be resided into various data warehouse in shared and generally granted manner.
3.Time-Variant –
In this data is maintained via different intervals of time such as weekly, monthly, or annually etc. It founds various time limit which are structured between the large datasets and are held in online transaction process (OLTP). The time limits for data warehouse is wide-ranged than that of operational systems. 
4.Non-Volatile –
As the name defines the data resided in data warehouse is permanent. It also means that data is not erased or deleted when new data is inserted. It includes the mammoth quantity of data that is inserted into modification between the selected quantity on logical business. It evaluates the analysis within the technologies of warehouse.

14. What is Star-Schema?
ANS:Star-Schema-
In data warehousing and business intelligence (BI), a star schema is the simplest form of a dimensional model, in which data is organized into facts and dimensions.  A fact is an event that is counted or measured, such as a sale or login.  A dimension contains reference information about the fact, such as date, product, or customer. A star schema is diagramed by surrounding each fact with its associated dimensions. The resulting diagram resembles a star. 
Star schemas are optimized for querying large data sets and are used in data warehouses and data marts to support OLAP cubes, business intelligence and analytic applications, and ad hoc queries.

15. What do you mean by SETL?
ANS:SETL-
SETL provides two basic aggregate data types: unordered sets, and sequences (the latter also called tuples). The elements of sets and tuples can be of any arbitrary type, including sets and tuples themselves. Maps are provided as sets of pairs (i.e., tuples of length 2) and can have arbitrary domain and range types. Primitive operations in SETL include set membership, union, intersection, and power set construction, among others.